Profession of test engineer. What is QA and for who?
----------------------------------------------------
Today it is not a secret for everybody, working in IT is cool (prestigious, perspectable, profitable): A good salaries (it is decisive factor for a lot of employes from other industries which are going through hard times), a comfortable chair sitting posture in an air-conditioned office, the hands don't smell of fuel oil, a business trips in different parts of the world, a good social package, the possibility of moving to more developed countrie, free cookies.
But despite all the advantages listed, many people think: “This job is not for me: I'm too active, I can’t sit out during forty hours a week”, or “I need a special mathematic mindset, but I’m completely humanist”, or “They won’t take me, this is for the young peeple only”, or whatever.
Nevertheless, there are a lot of people who are bombarding with emails the personnel officers of IT companies.
All of them, before sending their CV, think: "On what position can I work in IT?" Having weighed all the pros and cons, they often opt for QA, because the entry threshold is the lowest. Yes, to some extent it is.
Let's make a small indent into history to understand why such an opinion was formed ...
In 2011, when I applied for a QA job for the first time, few people were familiar with testing as an independent discipline. And I, like many others, did not even know what QA was. Seeing a job posting on rabota.ua, the first thing I did was to read in Wikipedia what QA is. I didn’t know English well, I was confused in "closed" and "closet" in interviews with foreign bosses, I knew little about the technical field. Nevertheless, I tried and prepared, passed all interviews and made the test task better than others (and I strongly recommend you to prepare for the interview as an exam).
But now, few people would have hired me then.
Since then, a lot of memory has passed (as programmers say), many versions of iPhones have been released, several sequels of "The Fast and the Furious"- and the "entry threshold" has become much higher (but lower than for programmers as we remember) due to the large number of applicants.
Five years is not much on a global scale, but the IT industry is developing very rapidly. The most powerful minds in this world are working on it. You need to evolve and improve to become an IT engineer, to take automation courses for quality assurance, and continue to do it constantly for remain it!
